# Workshop descriptions
Some proposed descriptions of workshops we could aim to develop.
Refer to [the descriptions of target audiences](./target-audiences.md) for more context.

## Workshop for Novices
A one-day workshop for novices, teaching a workflow that **supports learners in developing their own coding ability**, rather than relying on genAI to generate code for them.
Guide learners on how to ask an LLM for:
    * feedback on code written by the learner
    * advice and explanation when stuck
    * activities and assessments for practice, etc.
Explain why this approach will be better in the long term, even if it feels frustrating and inefficient right now.
Increase their awareness and understanding of how LLMs are trained, how they generate a response to a prompt, and some of the implications of their use, e.g.
    * the provenance of training data
    * how the model was trained and refined
    * how popular LLM tools are presented to the user
    * what the LLM's developers' priorities are for their use, and how this might conflict with what learners want to achieve
    * what impact use of genAI may have on the learner, other people, the environment, and society

## Workshop for Competent Practitioners
A two-day, standalone workshop for competent practitioners, teaching a workflow that emphasises validation and evaluation of responses (especially code) generated by LLM.
Compare outputs generated by a range of models to the same prompt, and outputs generated by the same model in response to a range of differently-worded prompts/prompts with different context provided.
Discuss the appropriate use of generative AI in the context of research, and some steps that learners can take to safeguard research integrity, e.g.
    * acknowledge use
    * validate output
    * include their prompt and summary of context used alongside source code generated
    * limit use to tasks they could perform themselves/that they have the capacity to review and validate
Increase their awareness and understanding of how LLMs are trained, how they generate a response to a prompt, and what the implications are of their use (see the list above).
